She sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue. Her head was leaned against the window curtains, and in her nostrils was the odour of dusty cretonne. She was tired.

Few people passed. The man out of the last house passed on his way home; she heard his footsteps clacking along the concrete pavement and afterwards crunching on the cinder path before the new red houses. One time there used to be a field there in which they used to play every evening with other people's children. Then a man from Belfast bought the field and built houses in it—not like their little brown houses, but bright brick houses with shining roofs. The children of the avenue used to play together in that field—the Devines, the Waters, the Dunns, little Keogh the cripple, she and her brothers and sisters. But the field was built in and the old marigold and the old humble way of life faded away. Yet she sometimes thought of the old days of her childhood and of the way her mother used to dress her and comb her hair behind the kitchen table. Then she would have a long sigh.

She had consented to go away, to leave her home. Was that wise? She tried to weigh each side of the question. In her home anyway she had shelter and food; she had those whom she had known all her life about her. Of course she had to work hard both in the house and at business. What would she do in that new world? She was fearful, despondent, tired already.

She had to decide between two worlds, the old and the new; and thought of the horrors of the new life into which she was going to sail. Frank was very kind, very generous, but she sometimes felt herself in danger of her father's violence. She was about nineteen years of age.

The evening deepened in the avenue. The white of two letters in her lap grew indistinct. One was to Harry; the other was to her father. Ernest had been her father's name when she was a small child as now.

Distinct and very clear rose the image of her mother's life, its little hardships and humiliations in her婚姻生活中. Yet when she was married he was not so bad then. And now she sometimes had a few shillings extra to squander and felt herself a little swell with the neighbours. For some time she had not quarrelled with Frank. And now? She would be married I suppose.

What did the stars care about her life? Amid the odours from the kitchens, the odour of spices from Mr. Reville's shop when the wind blew from the north. In the next field the cattle stood or moved slowly here and there. She stood up in a sudden impulse of terror. Escape! She must escape! Frank would save her. He was to call for her at the corner. She would run away with him into the world.

She stood among the swaying crowd in the shed at the North Wall. He held her hand and she knew that he was speaking to her, asking her to love him, to be his wife. The bells of the quayside rattled against the thick rope. She felt the anguish in her heart that refused to obey. Why couldn't she?

At last she heard a mournful whistle and she felt him pull her. All the seas of the world tumbled about her heart. He was drawing her into them: he would drown her. She gripped with both hands at the iron railing.

"Come!"

No! No! No! It was impossible. Her hands clutched the iron in frenzy. A bell clanged upon her heart. She felt him still holding her hand, entreating her, against all around them.

She set her white face to him, passive, like a helpless animal. Her eyes gave him no sign of love or farewell or recognition.

The End
