An Ideal Family


That evening for the first time in his life, as he pressed through the
swing door and descended the three broad steps to the pavement, old Mr.
Neave felt he was too old for the spring. Spring—warm, eager,
restless—was there, waiting for him in the golden light, ready in front
of everybody to run up, to blow in his white beard, to drag sweetly on
his arm. And he couldn’t meet her, no; he couldn’t square up once more
and stride off, jaunty as a young man. He was tired and, although the
late sun was still shining, curiously cold, with a numbed feeling all
over. Quite suddenly he hadn’t the energy, he hadn’t the heart to stand
this gaiety and bright movement any longer; it confused him. He wanted
to stand still, to wave it away with his stick, to say, “Be off with
you!” Suddenly it was a terrible effort to greet as usual—tipping his
wide-awake with his stick—all the people whom he knew, the friends,
acquaintances, shopkeepers, postmen, drivers. But the gay glance that
went with the gesture, the kindly twinkle that seemed to say, “I’m a
match and more for any of you”—that old Mr. Neave could not manage at
all. He stumped along, lifting his knees high as if he were walking
through air that had somehow grown heavy and solid like water. And the
homeward-looking crowd hurried by, the trams clanked, the light carts
clattered, the big swinging cabs bowled along with that reckless,
defiant indifference that one knows only in dreams....

It had been a day like other days at the office. Nothing special had
happened. Harold hadn’t come back from lunch until close on four. Where
had he been? What had he been up to? He wasn’t going to let his father
know. Old Mr. Neave had happened to be in the vestibule, saying
good-bye to a caller, when Harold sauntered in, perfectly turned out as
usual, cool, suave, smiling that peculiar little half-smile that women
found so fascinating.

Ah, Harold was too handsome, too handsome by far; that had been the
trouble all along. No man had a right to such eyes, such lashes, and
such lips; it was uncanny. As for his mother, his sisters, and the
servants, it was not too much to say they made a young god of him; they
worshipped Harold, they forgave him everything; and he had needed some
forgiving ever since the time when he was thirteen and he had stolen
his mother’s purse, taken the money, and hidden the purse in the cook’s
bedroom. Old Mr. Neave struck sharply with his stick upon the pavement
edge. But it wasn’t only his family who spoiled Harold, he reflected,
it was everybody; he had only to look and to smile, and down they went
before him. So perhaps it wasn’t to be wondered at that he expected the
office to carry on the tradition. H’m, h’m! But it couldn’t be done. No
business—not even a successful, established, big paying concern—could
be played with. A man had either to put his whole heart and soul into
it, or it went all to pieces before his eyes....

And then Charlotte and the girls were always at him to make the whole
thing over to Harold, to retire, and to spend his time enjoying
himself. Enjoying himself! Old Mr. Neave stopped dead under a group of
ancient cabbage palms outside the Government buildings! Enjoying
himself! The wind of evening shook the dark leaves to a thin airy
cackle. Sitting at home, twiddling his thumbs, conscious all the while
that his life’s work was slipping away, dissolving, disappearing
through Harold’s fine fingers, while Harold smiled....

“Why will you be so unreasonable, father? There’s absolutely no need
for you to go to the office. It only makes it very awkward for us when
people persist in saying how tired you’re looking. Here’s this huge
house and garden. Surely you could be happy in—in—appreciating it for a
change. Or you could take up some hobby.”

And Lola the baby had chimed in loftily, “All men ought to have
hobbies. It makes life impossible if they haven’t.”

Well, well! He couldn’t help a grim smile as painfully he began to
climb the hill that led into Harcourt Avenue. Where would Lola and her
sisters and Charlotte be if he’d gone in for hobbies, he’d like to
know? Hobbies couldn’t pay for the town house and the seaside bungalow,
and their horses, and their golf, and the sixty-guinea gramophone in
the music-room for them to dance to. Not that he grudged them these
things. No, they were smart, good-looking girls, and Charlotte was a
remarkable woman; it was natural for them to be in the swim. As a
matter of fact, no other house in the town was as popular as theirs; no
other family entertained so much. And how many times old Mr. Neave,
pushing the cigar box across the smoking-room table, had listened to
praises of his wife, his girls, of himself even.

“You’re an ideal family, sir, an ideal family. It’s like something one
reads about or sees on the stage.”

“That’s all right, my boy,” old Mr. Neave would reply. “Try one of
those; I think you’ll like them. And if you care to smoke in the
garden, you’ll find the girls on the lawn, I dare say.”

That was why the girls had never married, so people said. They could
have married anybody. But they had too good a time at home. They were
too happy together, the girls and Charlotte. H’m, h’m! Well, well.
Perhaps so....

By this time he had walked the length of fashionable Harcourt Avenue;
he had reached the corner house, their house. The carriage gates were
pushed back; there were fresh marks of wheels on the drive. And then he
faced the big white-painted house, with its wide-open windows, its
tulle curtains floating outwards, its blue jars of hyacinths on the
broad sills. On either side of the carriage porch their
hydrangeas—famous in the town—were coming into flower; the pinkish,
bluish masses of flower lay like light among the spreading leaves. And
somehow, it seemed to old Mr. Neave that the house and the flowers, and
even the fresh marks on the drive, were saying, “There is young life
here. There are girls—”

The hall, as always, was dusky with wraps, parasols, gloves, piled on
the oak chests. From the music-room sounded the piano, quick, loud and
impatient. Through the drawing-room door that was ajar voices floated.

“And were there ices?” came from Charlotte. Then the creak, creak of
her rocker.

“Ices!” cried Ethel. “My dear mother, you never saw such ices. Only two
kinds. And one a common little strawberry shop ice, in a sopping wet
frill.”

“The food altogether was too appalling,” came from Marion.

“Still, it’s rather early for ices,” said Charlotte easily.

“But why, if one has them at all....” began Ethel.

“Oh, quite so, darling,” crooned Charlotte.

Suddenly the music-room door opened and Lola dashed out. She started,
she nearly screamed, at the sight of old Mr. Neave.

“Gracious, father! What a fright you gave me! Have you just come home?
Why isn’t Charles here to help you off with your coat?”

Her cheeks were crimson from playing, her eyes glittered, the hair fell
over her forehead. And she breathed as though she had come running
through the dark and was frightened. Old Mr. Neave stared at his
youngest daughter; he felt he had never seen her before. So that was
Lola, was it? But she seemed to have forgotten her father; it was not
for him that she was waiting there. Now she put the tip of her crumpled
handkerchief between her teeth and tugged at it angrily. The telephone
rang. A-ah! Lola gave a cry like a sob and dashed past him. The door of
the telephone-room slammed, and at the same moment Charlotte called,
“Is that you, father?”

“You’re tired again,” said Charlotte reproachfully, and she stopped the
rocker and offered her warm plum-like cheek. Bright-haired Ethel pecked
his beard, Marion’s lips brushed his ear.

“Did you walk back, father?” asked Charlotte.

“Yes, I walked home,” said old Mr. Neave, and he sank into one of the
immense drawing-room chairs.

“But why didn’t you take a cab?” said Ethel. “There are hundreds of
cabs about at that time.”

“My dear Ethel,” cried Marion, “if father prefers to tire himself out,
I really don’t see what business of ours it is to interfere.”

“Children, children?” coaxed Charlotte.

But Marion wouldn’t be stopped. “No, mother, you spoil father, and it’s
not right. You ought to be stricter with him. He’s very naughty.” She
laughed her hard, bright laugh and patted her hair in a mirror.
Strange! When she was a little girl she had such a soft, hesitating
voice; she had even stuttered, and now, whatever she said—even if it
was only “Jam, please, father”—it rang out as though she were on the
stage.

“Did Harold leave the office before you, dear?” asked Charlotte,
beginning to rock again.

“I’m not sure,” said Old Mr. Neave. “I’m not sure. I didn’t see him
after four o’clock.”

“He said—” began Charlotte.

But at that moment Ethel, who was twitching over the leaves of some
paper or other, ran to her mother and sank down beside her chair.

“There, you see,” she cried. “That’s what I mean, mummy. Yellow, with
touches of silver. Don’t you agree?”

“Give it to me, love,” said Charlotte. She fumbled for her
tortoise-shell spectacles and put them on, gave the page a little dab
with her plump small fingers, and pursed up her lips. “Very sweet!” she
crooned vaguely; she looked at Ethel over her spectacles. “But I
shouldn’t have the train.”

“Not the train!” wailed Ethel tragically. “But the train’s the whole
point.”

“Here, mother, let me decide.” Marion snatched the paper playfully from
Charlotte. “I agree with mother,” she cried triumphantly. “The train
overweights it.”

Old Mr. Neave, forgotten, sank into the broad lap of his chair, and,
dozing, heard them as though he dreamed. There was no doubt about it,
he was tired out; he had lost his hold. Even Charlotte and the girls
were too much for him to-night. They were too... too.... But all his
drowsing brain could think of was—too _rich_ for him. And somewhere at
the back of everything he was watching a little withered ancient man
climbing up endless flights of stairs. Who was he?

“I shan’t dress to-night,” he muttered.

“What do you say, father?”

“Eh, what, what?” Old Mr. Neave woke with a start and stared across at
them. “I shan’t dress to-night,” he repeated.

“But, father, we’ve got Lucile coming, and Henry Davenport, and Mrs.
Teddie Walker.”

“It will look so _very_ out of the picture.”

“Don’t you feel well, dear?”

“You needn’t make any effort. What is Charles _for_?”

“But if you’re really not up to it,” Charlotte wavered.

“Very well! Very well!” Old Mr. Neave got up and went to join that
little old climbing fellow just as far as his dressing-room....

There young Charles was waiting for him. Carefully, as though
everything depended on it, he was tucking a towel round the hot-water
can. Young Charles had been a favourite of his ever since as a little
red-faced boy he had come into the house to look after the fires. Old
Mr. Neave lowered himself into the cane lounge by the window, stretched
out his legs, and made his little evening joke, “Dress him up,
Charles!” And Charles, breathing intensely and frowning, bent forward
to take the pin out of his tie.

H’m, h’m! Well, well! It was pleasant by the open window, very
pleasant—a fine mild evening. They were cutting the grass on the tennis
court below; he heard the soft churr of the mower. Soon the girls would
begin their tennis parties again. And at the thought he seemed to hear
Marion’s voice ring out, “Good for you, partner.... Oh, _played_,
partner.... Oh, _very_ nice indeed.” Then Charlotte calling from the
veranda, “Where is Harold?” And Ethel, “He’s certainly not here,
mother.” And Charlotte’s vague, “He said—”

Old Mr. Neave sighed, got up, and putting one hand under his beard, he
took the comb from young Charles, and carefully combed the white beard
over. Charles gave him a folded handkerchief, his watch and seals, and
spectacle case.

“That will do, my lad.” The door shut, he sank back, he was alone....

And now that little ancient fellow was climbing down endless flights
that led to a glittering, gay dining-room. What legs he had! They were
like a spider’s—thin, withered.

“You’re an ideal family, sir, an ideal family.”

But if that were true, why didn’t Charlotte or the girls stop him? Why
was he all alone, climbing up and down? Where was Harold? Ah, it was no
good expecting anything from Harold. Down, down went the little old
spider, and then, to his horror, old Mr. Neave saw him slip past the
dining-room and make for the porch, the dark drive, the carriage gates,
the office. Stop him, stop him, somebody!

Old Mr. Neave started up. It was dark in his dressing-room; the window
shone pale. How long had he been asleep? He listened, and through the
big, airy, darkened house there floated far-away voices, far-away
sounds. Perhaps, he thought vaguely, he had been asleep for a long
time. He’d been forgotten. What had all this to do with him—this house
and Charlotte, the girls and Harold—what did he know about them? They
were strangers to him. Life had passed him by. Charlotte was not his
wife. His wife!

... A dark porch, half hidden by a passion-vine, that drooped
sorrowful, mournful, as though it understood. Small, warm arms were
round his neck. A face, little and pale, lifted to his, and a voice
breathed, “Good-bye, my treasure.”

My treasure! “Good-bye, my treasure!” Which of them had spoken? Why had
they said good-bye? There had been some terrible mistake. _She_ was his
wife, that little pale girl, and all the rest of his life had been a
dream.

Then the door opened, and young Charles, standing in the light, put his
hands by his side and shouted like a young soldier, “Dinner is on the
table, sir!”

“I’m coming, I’m coming,” said old Mr. Neave.




The Lady’s Maid


_Eleven o’clock. A knock at the door._

... I hope I haven’t disturbed you, madam. You weren’t asleep—were you?
But I’ve just given my lady her tea, and there was such a nice cup
over, I thought, perhaps....

... Not at all, madam. I always make a cup of tea last thing. She
drinks it in bed after her prayers to warm her up. I put the kettle on
when she kneels down and I say to it, “Now you needn’t be in too much
of a hurry to say _your_ prayers.” But it’s always boiling before my
lady is half through. You see, madam, we know such a lot of people, and
they’ve all got to be prayed for—every one. My lady keeps a list of the
names in a little red book. Oh dear! whenever some one new has been to
see us and my lady says afterwards, “Ellen, give me my little red
book,” I feel quite wild, I do. “There’s another,” I think, “keeping
her out of her bed in all weathers.” And she won’t have a cushion, you
know, madam; she kneels on the hard carpet. It fidgets me something
dreadful to see her, knowing her as I do. I’ve tried to cheat her; I’ve
spread out the eiderdown. But the first time I did it—oh, she gave me
such a look—holy it was, madam. “Did our Lord have an eiderdown,
Ellen?” she said. But—I was younger at the time—I felt inclined to say,
“No, but our Lord wasn’t your age, and he didn’t know what it was to
have your lumbago.” Wicked—wasn’t it? But she’s _too_ good, you know,
madam. When I tucked her up just now and seen—saw her lying back, her
hands outside and her head on the pillow—so pretty—I couldn’t help
thinking, “Now you look just like your dear mother when I laid her
out!”

... Yes, madam, it was all left to me. Oh, she did look sweet. I did
her hair, soft-like, round her forehead, all in dainty curls, and just
to one side of her neck I put a bunch of most beautiful purple pansies.
Those pansies made a picture of her, madam! I shall never forget them.
I thought to-night, when I looked at my lady, “Now, if only the pansies
was there no one could tell the difference.”

... Only the last year, madam. Only after she’d got a
little—well—feeble as you might say. Of course, she was never
dangerous; she was the sweetest old lady. But how it took her was—she
thought she’d lost something. She couldn’t keep still, she couldn’t
settle. All day long she’d be up and down, up and down; you’d meet her
everywhere,—on the stairs, in the porch, making for the kitchen. And
she’d look up at you, and she’d say—just like a child, “I’ve lost it,
I’ve lost it.” “Come along,” I’d say, “come along, and I’ll lay out
your patience for you.” But she’d catch me by the hand—I was a
favourite of hers—and whisper, “Find it for me, Ellen. Find it for me.”
Sad, wasn’t it?

... No, she never recovered, madam. She had a stroke at the end. Last
words she ever said was—very slow, “Look in—the—Look—in—” And then she
was gone.

... No, madam, I can’t say I noticed it. Perhaps some girls. But you
see, it’s like this, I’ve got nobody but my lady. My mother died of
consumption when I was four, and I lived with my grandfather, who kept
a hair-dresser’s shop. I used to spend all my time in the shop under a
table dressing my doll’s hair—copying the assistants, I suppose. They
were ever so kind to me. Used to make me little wigs, all colours, the
latest fashions and all. And there I’d sit all day, quiet as quiet—the
customers never knew. Only now and again I’d take my peep from under
the table-cloth.

... But one day I managed to get a pair of scissors and—would you
believe it, madam? I cut off all my hair; snipped it off all in bits,
like the little monkey I was. Grandfather was _furious_! He caught hold
of the tongs—I shall never forget it—grabbed me by the hand and shut my
fingers in them. “That’ll teach you!” he said. It was a fearful burn.
I’ve got the mark of it to-day.

... Well, you see, madam, he’d taken such pride in my hair. He used to
sit me up on the counter, before the customers came, and do it
something beautiful—big, soft curls and waved over the top. I remember
the assistants standing round, and me ever so solemn with the penny
grandfather gave me to hold while it was being done.... But he always
took the penny back afterwards. Poor grandfather! Wild, he was, at the
fright I’d made of myself. But he frightened me that time. Do you know
what I did, madam? I ran away. Yes, I did, round the corners, in and
out, I don’t know how far I didn’t run. Oh, dear, I must have looked a
sight, with my hand rolled up in my pinny and my hair sticking out.
People must have laughed when they saw me....

... No, madam, grandfather never got over it. He couldn’t bear the
sight of me after. Couldn’t eat his dinner, even, if I was there. So my
aunt took me. She was a cripple, an upholstress. Tiny! She had to stand
on the sofas when she wanted to cut out the backs. And it was helping
her I met my lady....

... Not so very, madam. I was thirteen, turned. And I don’t remember
ever feeling—well—a child, as you might say. You see there was my
uniform, and one thing and another. My lady put me into collars and
cuffs from the first. Oh yes—once I did! That was—funny! It was like
this. My lady had her two little nieces staying with her—we were at
Sheldon at the time—and there was a fair on the common.

“Now, Ellen,” she said, “I want you to take the two young ladies for a
ride on the donkeys.” Off we went; solemn little loves they were; each
had a hand. But when we came to the donkeys they were too shy to go on.
So we stood and watched instead. Beautiful those donkeys were! They
were the first I’d seen out of a cart—for pleasure as you might say.
They were a lovely silver-grey, with little red saddles and blue
bridles and bells jing-a-jingling on their ears. And quite big
girls—older than me, even—were riding them, ever so gay. Not at all
common, I don’t mean, madam, just enjoying themselves. And I don’t know
what it was, but the way the little feet went, and the eyes—so
gentle—and the soft ears—made me want to go on a donkey more than
anything in the world!

... Of course, I couldn’t. I had my young ladies. And what would I have
looked like perched up there in my uniform? But all the rest of the day
it was donkeys—donkeys on the brain with me. I felt I should have burst
if I didn’t tell some one; and who was there to tell? But when I went
to bed—I was sleeping in Mrs. James’s bedroom, our cook that was, at
the time—as soon as the lights was out, there they were, my donkeys,
jingling along, with their neat little feet and sad eyes.... Well,
madam, would you believe it, I waited for a long time and pretended to
be asleep, and then suddenly I sat up and called out as loud as I
could, “_I do want to go on a donkey. I do want a donkey-ride!_” You
see, I had to say it, and I thought they wouldn’t laugh at me if they
knew I was only dreaming. Artful—wasn’t it? Just what a silly child
would think....

... No, madam, never now. Of course, I did think of it at one time. But
it wasn’t to be. He had a little flower-shop just down the road and
across from where we was living. Funny—wasn’t it? And me such a one for
flowers. We were having a lot of company at the time, and I was in and
out of the shop more often than not, as the saying is. And Harry and I
(his name was Harry) got to quarrelling about how things ought to be
arranged—and that began it. Flowers! you wouldn’t believe it, madam,
the flowers he used to bring me. He’d stop at nothing. It was
lilies-of-the-valley more than once, and I’m not exaggerating! Well, of
course, we were going to be married and live over the shop, and it was
all going to be just so, and I was to have the window to arrange....
Oh, how I’ve done that window of a Saturday! Not really, of course,
madam, just dreaming, as you might say. I’ve done it for
Christmas—motto in holly, and all—and I’ve had my Easter lilies with a
gorgeous star all daffodils in the middle. I’ve hung—well, that’s
enough of that. The day came he was to call for me to choose the
furniture. Shall I ever forget it? It was a Tuesday. My lady wasn’t
quite herself that afternoon. Not that she’d said anything, of course;
she never does or will. But I knew by the way that she kept wrapping
herself up and asking me if it was cold—and her little nose looked...
pinched. I didn’t like leaving her; I knew I’d be worrying all the
time. At last I asked her if she’d rather I put it off. “Oh no, Ellen,”
she said, “you mustn’t mind about me. You mustn’t disappoint your young
man.” And so cheerful, you know, madam, never thinking about herself.
It made me feel worse than ever. I began to wonder... then she dropped
her handkerchief and began to stoop down to pick it up herself—a thing
she never did. “Whatever are you doing!” I cried, running to stop her.
“Well,” she said, smiling, you know, madam, “I shall have to begin to
practise.” Oh, it was all I could do not to burst out crying. I went
over to the dressing-table and made believe to rub up the silver, and I
couldn’t keep myself in, and I asked her if she’d rather I... didn’t
get married. “No, Ellen,” she said—that was her voice, madam, like I’m
giving you—“No, Ellen, not for the _wide world_!” But while she said
it, madam—I was looking in her glass; of course, she didn’t know I
could see her—she put her little hand on her heart just like her dear
mother used to, and lifted her eyes... Oh, _madam_!

When Harry came I had his letters all ready, and the ring and a ducky
little brooch he’d given me—a silver bird it was, with a chain in its
beak, and on the end of the chain a heart with a dagger. Quite the
thing! I opened the door to him. I never gave him time for a word.
“There you are,” I said. “Take them all back,” I said, “it’s all over.
I’m not going to marry you,” I said, “I can’t leave my lady.” White! he
turned as white as a woman. I had to slam the door, and there I stood,
all of a tremble, till I knew he had gone. When I opened the
door—believe me or not, madam—that man _was_ gone! I ran out into the
road just as I was, in my apron and my house-shoes, and there I stayed
in the middle of the road... staring. People must have laughed if they
saw me....

... Goodness gracious!—What’s that? It’s the clock striking! And here
I’ve been keeping you awake. Oh, madam, you ought to have stopped
me.... Can I tuck in your feet? I always tuck in my lady’s feet, every
night, just the same. And she says, “Good night, Ellen. Sleep sound and
wake early!” I don’t know what I should do if she didn’t say that, now.

... Oh dear, I sometimes think... whatever should I do if anything were
to.... But, there, thinking’s no good to anyone—is it, madam? Thinking
won’t help. Not that I do it often. And if ever I do I pull myself up
sharp, “Now, then, Ellen. At it again—you silly girl! If you can’t find
anything better to do than to start thinking!...”